National Sales Head
Location: Noida Experience: 20+ Years
Job Description:
Formulate Sales strategies to; (a) drive top line growth in domestic as well as export market and prepare innovative plans to achieve higher value realization, (b) for brand management, evaluation and market promotion strategies, for various existing / new products

Develop sales plans, strategies and policies with a view to increase/sustain market share and profitability.
Have effective implementation and monitoring mechanism to ensure achievement of the Sales plans and strategies.
Formulate policies and guidelines for smooth functioning and satisfaction of channel partners like dealers, distributors and stockiest.
Scan the environment to understand competitor’s activities, demand supply scenario, regulatory issues to formulate strategies for increasing market share
Ensure an increased market share and profitability by facilitating market development, brand management and business development. Focus on business development through domestic / export markets (defined geographies) and building the brand of the company in the domestic /exports market.
Continuously monitor the pricing patterns within the market, checking the prices for the desired products regularly with respect to their competitiveness and value as perceived by the customers, deciding upon pricing from time to time on a need basis to ensure the products are sold with highest recoveries possible.
Initiate market intelligence system to provide monthly information to top management on potential data, competitor’s activities, new product opportunities and other changes in the environment.
Evolve policies for establishing a robust field force monitoring and people management, relationship management system in order to increase field force satisfaction and portfolio growth.
Managing the complete sales cycle from business development and customer acquisition to receipt of payments.
Industry: FMCG/ Food Processing

Qualifications: Any Graduate, MBA/PGDM in Sales & Marketing (Preferred)

Key Accountabilities:

Meeting sales targets & objectives
Market share growth - Strengthening & expanding distribution network
Identification & development of new markets
Implementation of initiatives and Sales & Marketing strategies, Retail strategy, Modern Trade, Institutional Sales
Establish CRM tools and systems
Relationship building & customer satisfaction with key accounts / CSA / Retailers / Stockists.
Cost optimization in retail operations
Development of a market intelligence/ information system
Training, development & monitoring of sales & distribution personnel
Interested candidates may send their resume to career@dsgroup.com